A case in this video we're going to be looking at how we can use like statement in a WHERE clause.
So you use the word like statement for pattern matching.
So I think the easiest way to explain this is through in example.
So for example I've selected stuff from customers and just returned all the rows of data in the table
in the Customer table.
But let's try and find just the customers who have a last name beginning with W and we can do this using
the like keyword search in our select store from customers query on the next line.
Let's type where last name and then use the keyword like say where last name is like.
And then open a pair of single quotes and within a single page type w because we want the last name
to begin with W and follow that with a percentage sign and what the percentage sign is doing is it saying
return any last names that start with Toby and then are followed by any number of characters.
So let's see what if we run this query what it returns and we see returns.
All our customers have a last name that begins with W.
So we have West Williams and Watkin's say the percentage sign is looking for any number of characters
of the doubly bad.
We don't have to only use one percent sign in or like statements.
We can change this to an hour and then have a percentage sign before the next run and see what it returns.
So you can see it's return quite a rise and in fact it's returned every last name that has an issue
in it.
So it looks for any number of characters before the show and he's looking for any number of characters
after the show.
So as long as the last name has an eye in it then it's going to be returned in this statement here.
And you can see up here I've written the percentage sign is looking for any number of characters but
we can also use and underscore and that's just looking for one character.
So let's look at the difference between the percentage sign and the underscore in a like statement with
an example.
So that store from customers where first name is like potentiates sign or percentage sign.
So this should return any customer that has eye in their first name and you can see its returns.
John Jole and Ghareeb George George John and tell me so they all have in their first name.
So let's change the percent you sign now to an underscore.
On either side of the eye and run that statement again you can see it's just return gobe.
And that's because he only has one character.
Either side of the eye.
So it's a character any character or any character.
And it didn't return jauh know George because they have more than one character either side of the eye.
So it didn't it didn't meet the criteria for this like statement and it's not just string columns that
we can use the like statement.
We can also use it on a number of columns.
So let's select stuff from products and see what we got.
So we have this price column which is OVC numbers.
So let's try and return all the rows that have a price that begins with free so you can be free point
0 0 0 free.
Point anything.
So to do that we can go into a select statement and type where price is like 3 percent sign.
Now even though we're dealing with a number column we we she needs to sing requies when we are using
that like statement.
So let's run up and you can see it's only returned six Fridays so it's got rid of espresso which was
the one in the price 2.5 but has returned 3.00 3.5 three point to five.
So that was where the price column started with a free and was followed by any number of characters
free points series or three point five zero.
So this is how we use like within a WHERE clause when we're trying to match patterns of data and we
can use that percentage sign when we're looking for any number of characters or we can use the under
school when we're just looking for one character.